[Setup]
Each country starts off with one of its Armies in its Home
Space. Each country begins 
the game by drawing 12 cards from that country’s deck and 
discarding 5 cards to create an opening hand of 7 cards.

[Turn Sequence]
1. Play Step: 
Play one card. 
2. Air Force Step: 
Deploy or Marshal an Air Force when using the Air Marshal expansion (Optional).
3. Supply Step: 
Remove your out-of-supply pieces from the board.
4. Victory Step: 
Collect Victory Points.* 
5. Discard Step: 
Discard any number of cards from your hand. Deduct 1 Victory Point if you do not discard a card. 
6. Draw Step: 
Draw until your hand has seven cards.** 

*Skip this step if your Home Space is occupied by an enemy Army. 
**Response and Status cards on the table are not in your hand.

[Map clarification]
Spaces that meet at exactly one point are not considered adjacent. 
Specifically, the Middle East and the Balkans are not adjacent, and Black Sea and Mediterranean are not adjacent.

[Straits]
A strait is indicated on the game board with an anchor icon. 
The anchor appears on the land space that allows control of the strait, and the arrows indicate which two bodies of water are connected by the strait. 
If the Strait is open, then the two Sea spaces are considered adjacent; otherwise, the spaces are not considered adjacent. 
• Straits are only open to one team at a time.
• A Strait is open to the Allies if no Axis Army occupies the Land space that controls the strait.
• A Strait is open to the Axis if an Axis Army occupies the Land space that controls the strait.

[Order of Play]
A game can last up to 20 rounds. Every round, each country takes a turn in the following order 
1. Germany 
2. United Kingdom 
3. Japan 
4. Soviet Union 
5. Italy 
6. United States 

[Pieces]
Each country may only have one piece per space, although
different countries on the same team may each have a piece in
a space. Pieces from countries on different teams may never
occupy the same space. Navies may only occupy Sea spaces;
Armies may only occupy Land
spaces.
A country receives a fixed
number of pieces for the game;
if all are in play, no more are
available to be recruited or
built. Pieces removed from the board for any reason become
available; at any time you may remove your own piece from the
board to make the piece available, but you cannot be compelled
to remove a piece by a teammate. 

[Supply]
At any moment, a piece is either supplied or out-of-supply.
Armies and Navies must trace a line of its own country’s
Armies and/or Navies to a Supply Space. You cannot use another country’s pieces to trace supply.
Navies have an additional requirement, beyond tracing a line
of their own country’s pieces; Navies must be adjacent to a
land space occupied by an Army from any country on the same
team. This Army does NOT need to be in supply.
During the Supply step of a country’s turn, that country’s outof-supply pieces are removed. Pieces of other countries are not
affected.
Supply Space markers
There are two Supply Space markers, one
for Canada (United Kingdom) and one for
Szechuan (United States). These markers are
placed when certain Status cards are played,
and serve as a reminder that these spaces
are Supply Spaces for those Allied countries.

[Cards]
Each country has a separate draw deck of cards, hand of cards,
a discard pile, and (perhaps) face-down Response cards and
face-up Status cards on the table.
If your draw deck is depleted, you no longer draw cards but
otherwise continue playing. Likewise, if your hand and deck
are depleted, you continue playing to collect Victory Points and
check supply.
If a card directs you to discard cards from your draw deck but
your draw deck is depleted, the cards are discarded from your
hand. (This may be a result from an enemy card or from the
use of your own card.) Likewise, if a card directs you to discard
from your hand but your hand is empty, you must discard the
top card(s) of your draw deck instead.
If both your hand and draw deck is depleted, your team loses 1 Victory Point for each card you were unable to discard. 

Card types
Build Army: Put one of your available
Armies in a Land space adjacent to your own
supplied piece. In addition, you can always
build an Army in a country’s own Home
Space. Remember however, at no time may a
country have two Armies in the same space,
and at no time can pieces from enemy teams
occupy the same space.
Build Navy: Put one of your available Navies
in a Sea space adjacent to your own supplied
piece. A newly built Navy must be in supply.
Again, at no time may a country have two
Navies in the same space, and at no time can
pieces from enemy teams occupy the same
space.
Land Battle: Select an enemy Army adjacent
to one of your own supplied Army or Navy
pieces and remove it from the board.
Sea Battle: Select an enemy Navy adjacent
to one of your own supplied Army or Navy
pieces and remove it from the board.
Event: The text on Event cards specify what
will happen when it is played.
Status: These cards are played face-up on
the table. The text on a Status card indicates
when it may be used and what it does. Playing
a Status card to the table is your Play step
for that turn; you cannot play a Status card
and another card (unless the card text says
otherwise). You are never forced to use your
own Status cards. Status cards stay on the table and are potentially useful throughout the
game unless discarded by another card.
Response: These cards are played face-down
on the table. Playing a Response card to the
table is your Play step for that turn. The
game text on a Response card indicates when
it may be used and what it does. When you
want to use it, reveal it to the other players. A
Response card is discarded after one use. You
may use a Response card on the same turn as
it is played.
Economic Warfare: These cards generally
allow a player to discard opponents’ cards.
Remember, if an opponent runs out of
cards, their team must lose Victory Points
instead! There is no requirement that an
opponent still occupy their own Home
Space for Economic Warfare cards to work
against them.
Bolster Cards
Bolster cards may be used directly from hand as reactions; the trigger for the reaction is specified on the card itself. Once used, Bolster
cards are discarded. Bolster cards are not
used as the card “played” during your play
step (although they may be triggered during
the play step). Like Deploy Air Force cards,
Bolster cards may be discarded for no effect
to satisfy the requirement that one card be
played each play step.
Many Bolster cards can be used out of turn; this means you may
have fewer than seven cards in hand when beginning your turn.
Use of a Bolster card is always optional.
Many Bolster cards specify that you must discard one or more
cards from your hand or draw deck. These cards are discarded
in addition to the Bolster card, unless the card text indicates
otherwise.

[Card play]
On the Play step of your turn you MUST play (or discard) a
card, even if it cannot be of any use, unless you have no more
cards to play. There are certain situations where you cannot
or would not want to take advantage of a card; in this case you
can just discard it with no effect; you can always discard a
card, regardless of the prerequisites.
If a card has two or more actions, these actions are performed
in the order presented on the card. When a card specifies that
several actions occur in a sequence, each follows the next. For
example, if a card allows you to build two Armies, the second
Army could trace supply through the first. Each action is resolved one at a time (although the entire card text is known to
all, once revealed).
One benefit is not (typically) a prerequisite for
another. For example, Tito’s Partisans allows the
Soviets to eliminate an Axis Army in the Balkans
and then recruit a Soviet or United Kingdom
Army in the Balkans. If the space was unoccupied
when the card was played, the Soviets could still
recruit an Army in the Balkans.
Some cards specifically direct you to build or
recruit a teammate’s piece; this is not a misprint!
However, unless the card indicates another country, a card
always refers to the pieces and cards of its own country.
Using Status and Response cards during play
The text on Status and Response cards indicates under what
condition(s) the cards can be used. Status and Response cards
must be played onto the table during Play step of your turn
before being used – they can’t be used directly from your hand.
Playing a Status or Response card to the table is your Play step
for the turn. Once on the table the card is available to be used whenever conditions permit.
Use or applicability of Status or Response cards
is always at the discretion of the country of the
card, not necessarily the country that is affected.
For example, the RAF Response card could prevent a United States Navy from being removed.
Whenever you play a card that creates a situation
that could cause one or more opponents to play
a Status or Response card, both teams take turns using their
Status and Response cards, starting with the opposing team.
A team may use one Status or Response card, or pass up the
opportunity. Then the other team is can use a Status or Response card, or pass.
 The opportunity to use a Status or Response goes back and
forth until neither team wishes to use one.
(See Extended Card Play examples for more details.)
Using teammate’s cards
You cannot use another country’s Status or Response cards
unless specified in the text of the card.

[Scoring]
As teams, the Axis and the Allies accumulate Victory Points
throughout the game. Each side keeps track of their score
with a Victory Point marker that is
moved along the track on the edge
of the map.
During the Victory step of a country’s turn, gain 2 Victory Points per
starred Supply Space where that
country alone has an Army; or 1
Victory Point is gained if the space
also contains a teammate’s Army.
In addition, certain Status cards
may provide Victory Points during
the Victory Step.
If an enemy Army occupies a
country’s Home Space, that country skips the Victory step of its
turn. That country cannot gain
ANY Victory Points during the
Victory step of that turn, even
from cards.
However, if no is Step specified,
Victory Points awards awarded on
cards are scored immediately, even
if a country’s home space is occupied.
Victory is always determined for
an entire side (Axis or Allies), not
individual players or countries. 

[Victory]
Victory is achieved if a team leads by 30 or
more points ahead of its opponent at the end of a round (following the United States’ turn). If victory is not achieved within
20 rounds of play, the team with the higher score is victorious.
In the event of a tie, the Axis team wins.

[Timing within a Step]
Many cards indicate activity at the beginning of a given step.
The activity on cards such as this occurs before any other
during the given step.
• “At the Beginning of the Play step...” is before a card is
played.
• “At the Beginning of the Air Force step...” is before an Air
Force may be deployed or marshaled.
• “At the Beginning of the Supply step...” is before out-ofsupply pieces are removed from the board.
• “At the Beginning of the Victory step...” is before points
are collected.
• “At the Beginning of the Discard step...” is before cards
are discarded.
• “At the Beginning of the Draw step...” is before cards are
drawn.

[Reactions]
A reaction is defined as the use of the card text on a Status,
Response, or Bolster card; or the use of Air Attack, Air Defense,
Reposition, and Reallocate Resources. All reactions require a
specific trigger, like a land battle, the beginning of a step, etc.
Reaction Rules
• Reactions are never required.
• Reactions are resolved immediately after their trigger (for
example: A “Beginning of the Play step” reaction cannot occur once a card play is declared for the step).
• The two teams take turns reacting to the trigger, with the
team that did not cause the trigger going first. If the trigger
is a game mechanic (for example: the beginning of a Play
step), then the team of the country that is taking its turn
goes second.
• If a team has multiple reactions to the same trigger, only one
is used at a time. Then the other team can use a reaction.
A team with multiple reactions to the same trigger can use
them in the order it chooses, as long as the other side has a
chance to use a reaction in between.
• Reactions may trigger other reactions, which must be resolved before additional reactions to the original trigger are
used.
• If you do not use any of your reactions to a particular trigger,
you can’t later react upon seeing further reactions to the
same trigger. 

[Air Forces in Battle]
Air Defense
When your Army or
Navy would be removed
from the board due to a
battle, you may remove
an Air Force from the
same country in the
same space instead, as
a reaction. If you do not
choose to (or can not)
immediately use the Air
Defense or Reposition
reaction and the Air
Force finds itself in the
space without a supplied Army or Navy, the
Air Force is removed.
This reaction is not
available if the Army
or Navy is eliminated
instead of battled.
Air Attack
When an opponent uses the Air Defense reaction, you may remove your own Air Force adjacent to the space battled in order
to remove the Army or Navy originally targeted by the battle.

[Reallocate Resources]
Reallocate Resources allows you to discard 4 cards from your
hand to search your draw deck for a card and add it to your
hand. Only Build Army, Build Navy, Land Battle, Sea Battle, or
Deploy Air Force cards can be chosen from your draw deck.
Reallocate Resources is only allowed at the beginning of your
Play step, before playing a card, and can only be used once per
turn.
You do not need to declare what type of card you want before
searching your deck, but you must reveal the card selected to
the other players. Afterwards, shuffle your draw deck.

[France and China]
When using this expansion, the forces of the Allied nations of
China (Black) and France (Blue) are now represented with
their own Armies, Navies, and Air Forces.
However, the pieces are controlled through
cards in the other Allied
decks. China and France are
not represented by additional players and do not have
their own separate decks.
Play involving French and
Chinese pieces is always
specified on a card.
Cards that refer to a player’s pieces (or actions)
without specifying the country refer to that
Allied country’s own pieces, and not the French
or Chinese pieces. For example, the United States card Wartime
Production cannot be used to build a Chinese Army, nor can it
be used in reaction to a Chinese Army being built.
China and France score victory points independently of the
United States and the United Kingdom. Thus France could
potentially score Victory Points during the Victory step of the
United Kingdom’s turn even if the United Kingdom’s Home
space was occupied – the step is not skipped for France. Likewise, if the United Kingdom was occupied by an Allied Army
and Western Europe Axis occupied, France would skip the
Victory step (exception, Government in Exile), but the United
Kingdom would still score.
France
• During setup, place a French Army in Western Europe.
• French pieces must trace their own supply lines, as a separate country from the United Kingdom.
• The Home space for France is Western Europe. The Government in Exile card moves the French Home space to the
United Kingdom if Western Europe is occupied by an Axis
Army.
• During its turn, the United Kingdom scores points and
checks supply for French pieces.
• If you are playing with the Air Marshal expansion: During
the Air step the United Kingdom player may discard a card
from hand to marshal a French Air Force (in addition to
deploying or marshaling a United Kingdom Air Force). The
United Kingdom player repositions the French Air Force
should the situation arise.
China
• During setup, place a Chinese Army in China.
• Chinese pieces must trace their own supply lines, as a separate country from the United States.
• The Home space for the Chinese is China. The substitute card
American Volunteer Group Expands permanently moves the
Chinese Home space to Szechuan.
• During its turn, the United States scores points and checks
supply for Chinese pieces.
• If you are playing with the Air Marshal expansion: During
the Air step, the United States player may discard a card
from hand to marshal a Chinese Air Force (in addition to deploying or marshaling a United States Air Force). The United
States player repositions the Chinese Air Force should the
situation arise.